Secure Docker Daemon
====================

Use to generate the key files and certificates needed to secure the Docker daemon. Certificates
and keys are created on the target host, which will typically be the Docker daemon host.  If you
plan on connecting to the Docker daemon from a remote host, add a play in your playbook that 
uses the copy module to copy the client files to the remote host. 

Configuring the daemon to actually use the certificates is a step you will need to add to your 
playbook or perform manually. How you add the required parameters to the service will depend
on your environment. Here are the parameters you will add: 

* --tlsverify 
* --tlscacert=/path/to/ca.pem 
* --tlscert=/path/to/server-cert.pem
* --tlskey=/path/to/server-key.pem   
* -H=tcp://hostname_or_ip:2376

For the client, place the client certificates in your home directory at ~/.docker. If you'll be 
executing the client on the target machine, the role will handle this for you. You will also need
to set the following environment variables:

* DOCKER_TLS_VERIFY=1
* DOCKER_HOST=tcp://hostname_or_ip:2376 

You can source the docker_env.sh script generated by this role to set the above variables. Source
it from your .profile or .bashrc to have the variables set automatically on login.


Requirements
------------

The following packages should already be installed on the target host: 

- openssl 


Role Variables
--------------

dds_country
> Two character country abbreviation. Used in the server CSR. Defaults to 'US'. 

dds_state
> State or provence name. Used in the server CSR. Defaults to 'North Carolina'.

dds_locality
> City name. Used in the server CSR. Defaults to 'Durham'. 

dds_organization
> Organization or company name. Used in the server CSR. Defaults to 'Acme Corp'.

dds_host
> The IP address used to access the Docker daemon. Defaults to
> ansible_docker0.ipv4.address if available (i.e. gather_facts is not off),
> and 127.0.0.1 otherwise.

dds_passphrase
> A password used to secure key files. Defauts to 'Phrase123!'.

dds_server_cert_path
> Path where server certificates will be created. Defaults to '/etc/docker'.

dds_client_cert_path
> Path where client certificates will be created. Defaults to '~/.docker'.

dds_env_shell_path
> Dest directory for an optional shell script that will set the DOCKER env variables used by
> clients when connecting to the Docker daemon. Defaults to '~' (the user's home directory).

dds_install_shell
> If true, will install a shell script named *docker_env.sh* that sets DOCKER env variables. Source the shell script
> in your .profile or .bashrc to set the variables automatically at login. Defaults to true.  

dds_restart_docker
> Set to true, if the docker daemon should be restarted after create the certificates. Defaults to false.

Example Playbook
----------------

Here's an example playbook that executes our role:

```
- name: Secure the docker daemon
  hosts: localhost
  connection: local

  roles:
    - role: ansible.secure-docker-daemon
      dds_host: 10.0.2.15
      dds_server_cert_path: /etc/default/docker
      dds_restart_docker: no
```

Because the role requires `become` for the server certs but user privileges for
the client certs, you may need to provide the `-K/--ask-become-pass` argument

License
-------

MIT

Authors
-------

[@chouseknecht](https://github.com/chouseknecht)

